# pv-performance-southeast-brazil

This repository contains the data and code used for the experimental section of the paper "Performance study of a photovoltaic system operating on the southeastern coast of Brazil", by Júlia de O. Gonzalez and Fernando R. Martins.

## Abstract

> The photovoltaic sector is expanding fast and reached 23.9 GW of installed power in Brazil in the first months of 2023 (occupying the 2<sup>nd</sup> place in installed capacity in the Brazilian electricity mix). Such a scenario makes PV power generation a resource for regional development and socioeconomic opportunities for metropolitan regions with a high national economy share and population density. The present work investigated the PV system's performance in a coastal area subject to high atmospheric turbidity due to cargo transportation emissions and port operational procedures. The PV system operates in Santos/SP at the rooftop of the Federal University of São Paulo building, close to Latin America's largest port in trade operations. Santos is a medium-sized city with dry winters and hot, humid summers. The performance assessment evaluated the typical consolidated metrics in the worldwide PV market, including performance ratio, capacity factor, final yields and system losses, obtained based on environmental and operational data acquired between October/2020 and September/2021. The results showed that the PV performance presented a high performance ratio (around 85%) and low system losses despite the expected influence of local atmospheric conditions related to the nearby polluting economic activities. The PV system performed better than the predicted numerical simulation tool based on the solar energy resource estimated for its location. Two factors have affected the research: the reduced economic activity linked to the COVID-19 pandemic and the extended dry season in 2020-2021.